README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">XafInsight</h1>

<p align="center">
  Excel Add-in • VSTO • Auditfile (XAF)  
  Read, analyze, and export Auditfiles (XAF) lightning fast into Excel
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a> ·
  <a href="#features">Features</a> ·
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> ·
  <a href="#usage">Usage</a> ·
  <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> ·
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

---

## About
**XafInsight** is a lightweight, powerful Excel add-in that allows you to **read Auditfiles** and other sources (SQLite, CSV, XML), create tables and relationships, apply SQL-like filters, and export directly to Excel.  

---

## Roadmap / TODO
- [ ] Implement default settings loading for Auditfiles  
- [ ] Add additional built-in analyses (beyond Benford’s Law)  
- [ ] Improve error handling for edge cases and large files  
- [ ] Create a dedicated documentation and user guide page  

---

## Features
⚡ **Lightning fast from XAF to Excel** — import and export directly to Excel sheets.  
🧩 **Tables & relationships** — create tables and define relationships between entities.  
🔎 **Powerful filters (SQL)** — use SQL-like constructs (AND/OR, LIKE, BETWEEN).  
📊 **Built-in analysis** — start with Benford’s Law, with more to come.  
🗂️ **Multiple sources** — combine XAF, SQLite, CSV, and XML.  
👥 **Team-ready** — import/export settings for consistent collaboration.  
🧾 **Logging & audit trail** — fully reproducible runs for compliance.  

---

## Compatibility
- **Auditfiles**: XAF 3.0 – 3.2 (other versions possible with manual steps)  
- **Formats**: XML, CSV, SQLite  
- **Platform**: Windows + Excel 2019/2021/365  
- **Technology**: Excel VSTO Add-in with lightweight SQLite engine  

---

## Installation
1. Download the latest release from [Releases](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/releases).  
2. Install the VSTO Add-in.  
3. Start Excel and check if the **XafInsight** ribbon is visible.  

### Requirements
- Windows 10/11  
- Excel 2019/2021/365  
- .NET Framework 4.8  

---

## Usage
1. **Select file** — choose your Auditfile (XAF 3.0–3.2), SQLite, CSV, or XML.  
2. **Model & relationships** — create tables, define relationships, and add custom tables.  
3. **SQL filtering** — apply powerful filters and generate precise subsets.  
4. **Analyze & export** — run analyses (e.g., Benford’s Law) and export directly to Excel sheets.  

---

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

<details>
  <summary><strong>Which Auditfile versions are supported?</strong></summary>

XAF 3.0–3.2. Other versions may work with manual adjustments.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>What are the system requirements?</strong></summary>

Windows 10/11, Excel 2019/2021/365, .NET Framework 4.8.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Can I share settings with my team?</strong></summary>

Yes, export/import settings and configurations for collaboration.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Can I generate an audit trail for compliance?</strong></summary>

Yes, XafInsight provides an audit trail with details of exports and filters.
</details>


---

## Contributing
- Open an [issue](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/issues) for bugs and feature requests.  
- Fork the repo and create a Pull Request to contribute.  
- Add a ⭐ to support the project and stay updated.

---

## License
This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/blob/main/LICENSE).

---

## Links
- 📦 [Releases](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/releases)  
- 🐞 [Report an issue](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/issues)  
- 🔍 [View source code](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight)

Commit message:

Update installation instructions in README.md
Added installation steps for the custom certificate and updated links.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">XafInsight</h1>

<p align="center">
  Excel Add-in • VSTO • Auditfile (XAF)  
  Read, analyze, and export Auditfiles (XAF) lightning fast into Excel
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a> ·
  <a href="#features">Features</a> ·
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> ·
  <a href="#usage">Usage</a> ·
  <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> ·
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

---

## About
**XafInsight** is a lightweight, powerful Excel add-in that allows you to **read Auditfiles** and other sources (SQLite, CSV, XML), create tables and relationships, apply SQL-like filters, and export directly to Excel.  

---

## Roadmap / TODO
- [ ] Implement default settings loading for Auditfiles  
- [ ] Add additional built-in analyses (beyond Benford’s Law)  
- [ ] Improve error handling for edge cases and large files  
- [ ] Create a dedicated documentation and user guide page  

---

## Features
⚡ **Lightning fast from XAF to Excel** — import and export directly to Excel sheets.  
🧩 **Tables & relationships** — create tables and define relationships between entities.  
🔎 **Powerful filters (SQL)** — use SQL-like constructs (AND/OR, LIKE, BETWEEN).  
📊 **Built-in analysis** — start with Benford’s Law, with more to come.  
🗂️ **Multiple sources** — combine XAF, SQLite, CSV, and XML.  
👥 **Team-ready** — import/export settings for consistent collaboration.  
🧾 **Logging & audit trail** — fully reproducible runs for compliance.  

---

## Compatibility
- **Auditfiles**: XAF 3.0 – 3.2 (other versions possible with manual steps)  
- **Formats**: XML, CSV, SQLite  
- **Platform**: Windows + Excel 2019/2021/365  
- **Technology**: Excel VSTO Add-in with lightweight SQLite engine  

---

## Installation

⚠️ **Important**: Because the add-in is signed with a custom certificate, you need to install the certificate before you can install the add-in.

1. Download the signing certificate:  
   👉 [xafinsight_codesign.cer](https://xafinsight.github.io/XafInsight/clickonce/xafinsight_codesign.cer)  

2. Install the certificate:  
   - Double-click the `.cer` file  
   - Choose **Install Certificate**  
   - Select **Local Machine** (admin rights required) or **Current User**  
   - Place the certificate in both:
     - **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**  
     - **Trusted Publishers**

3. Download and run the installer from GitHub Pages:  
   👉 [Install XafInsight Add-in](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/releases/latest) 

4. Start Excel and check if the **XafInsight** ribbon is visible.  

### Requirements
- Windows 10/11  
- Excel 2019/2021/365  
- .NET Framework 4.8  

---

## Usage
1. **Select file** — choose your Auditfile (XAF 3.0–3.2), SQLite, CSV, or XML.  
2. **Model & relationships** — create tables, define relationships, and add custom tables.  
3. **SQL filtering** — apply powerful filters and generate precise subsets.  
4. **Analyze & export** — run analyses (e.g., Benford’s Law) and export directly to Excel sheets.  

---

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

<details>
  <summary><strong>Which Auditfile versions are supported?</strong></summary>
XAF 3.0–3.2. Other versions may work with manual adjustments.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>What are the system requirements?</strong></summary>
Windows 10/11, Excel 2019/2021/365, .NET Framework 4.8.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Can I share settings with my team?</strong></summary>
Yes, export/import settings and configurations for collaboration.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Can I generate an audit trail for compliance?</strong></summary>
Yes, XafInsight provides an audit trail with details of exports and filters.
</details>

---

## Contributing
- Open an [issue](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/issues) for bugs and feature requests.  
- Fork the repo and create a Pull Request to contribute.  
- Add a ⭐ to support the project and stay updated.

---

## License
This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/blob/main/LICENSE).

---

## Links
- 📦 [Releases](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/releases)  
- 🐞 [Report an issue](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight/issues)  
- 🔍 [View source code](https://github.com/XafInsight/XafInsight)  
- 🌍 [ClickOnce Installer (GitHub Pages)](https://xafinsight.github.io/XafInsight/clickonce/)
